# Introduction

[Rosalind](http://rosalind.info/about/) is a platform for learning bioinformatics and programming through problem solving

Learning bioinformatics usually requires solving computational problems of varying difficulty that are extracted from real challenges of molecular biology. To make learning bioinformatics fun and easy, we have founded Rosalind, a platform for learning bioinformatics through problem solving.

Rosalind offers an array of intellectually stimulating problems that grow in biological and computational complexity; each problem is checked automatically, so that the only resource required to learn bioinformatics is an internet connection.

Mission statement: We hope that Rosalind will inspire a new generation of bioinformatics students by attracting biologists who want to develop vital programming skills at their own pace in a unique environment as well as programmers who have never been exposed to some of the stimulating computational problems generated by molecular biology.

# Contents
### [Python Village](https://github.com/wamber-aww/rosalind/tree/master/PythonVillage)
If you are completely new to programming, try these initial problems to learn a few basics about the Python programming language. You'll get familiar with the operations needed to start solving bioinformatics challenges in the Stronghold.

### [Bioinformatics Stronghold](https://github.com/wamber-aww/rosalind/tree/master/BioinfoStronghold)
Discover the algorithms underlying a variety of bioinformatics topics: computational mass spectrometry, alignment, dynamic programming, genome assembly, genome rearrangements, phylogeny, probability, string algorithms and others.

### Bioinformatics Armory
Ready-to-use software tools abound for bioinformatics analysis. Whereas in the Stronghold you implement algorithms on your own, in the Armory you solve similar problems by using existing tools.

### Bioinformatics Textbook Track
A collection of exercises to accompany Bioinformatics Algorithms: An Active-Learning Approach by Phillip Compeau & Pavel Pevzner. A full version of this text is hosted on stepic.org

### Algorithmic Heights
A collection of exercises in introductory algorithms to accompany "Algorithms", the popular textbook by Dasgupta, Papadimitriou, and Vazirani.
